First draft of FIP-0081 initial pledge baseline (#860)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FIPS/fip-xxxx-pledge-baseline.md

---

> fip: "<to be assigned>"

Reviewer: 0081

title: Introduce lower bound for sector initial pledge
author: "Alex North (@anorth), Vik Kalghatgi (@vkalghatgi) "
discussions-to: https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/847
status: Draft
type: Technical

> category: Core

Reviewer: I would suggest to call out this is related to network security, i.e: Core - Security

Author: This is not an option provided by the template. Maybe it can be after FIP-0001v2.

Reviewer: fair enough

created: 2023-10-31
spec-sections:
  - 2.6.3.1 Initial Pledge Collateral
---

## Simple Summary
Factor the sector initial consensus pledge calculation into "simple" and "baseline" components,
following the factoring of block reward emissions.

> This preserves a non-zero lower bound for the initial pledge as the baseline function grows exponentially.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This preserves a minimal threshold for the initial pledge as the baseline function grows exponentially.
```

Author: I don't think threshold is the right term to use here. Bound or floor are better.

## Abstract

The exponential baseline function in the denominator of the sector initial consensus pledge function eventually 
drives sector pledge requirements and total network collateral to zero, 
unless the network maintains an exponential rate of growth indefinitely. 
Tending toward zero network collateral would undermine both network consensus security and
circulating supply stability and hence SP operational returns. 

> Decreasing pledge requirements with slow growth is a desirable property, but decreasing all the way to zero isn’t.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Decreasing pledge requirements with slow growth is a desirable property, but decreasing all the way to zero is not.
```

This proposal splits the sector initial consensus pledge function into two parts, following the two part minting model.
A “simple” 30% of the pledge requirement is independent of the baseline function, 
while “baseline” 70% retains the current calculation.

> This results in sector initial consensus pledge requirements falling towards 30% of the amount they would have been 

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit hard to read for me, especially the "falling towards 30% of the amount they would have been " part, can we clarify a bit?
_network QAP is larger than the baseline function_ -> _network_ QAP is above the baseline_?

Author: Simplified

when network QAP is larger than the baseline function, instead of toward zero.

## Change Motivation
This sector initial pledge is intended to “incentivize the fulfillment of a sector's promised lifetime 

> and provide sufficient network  consensus security”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and provide sufficient network consensus security”.
```

It is divided into two parts:
- Storage pledge: provides collateral for some amount of potential penalties;
  depends only on share of projected block rewards and so decreases over time with the block reward decay.
- Consensus pledge: provides incentive alignment and consensus security;
  depends on share of circulating supply and the baseline function.

The consensus pledge makes up 95% of the sector initial pledge requirement today.
The network target is for approximately 30% of the circulating token supply to be locked in pledges,
apportioned by share of network QAP.

The per-sector value is calculated as
```
SectorInitialConsensusPledge = PledgeLockTarget * SectorQAP / max(NetworkBaseline, NetworkQAP)

PledgeLockTarget = 0.3 * CirculatingSupply
```
where `CirculatingSupply` is the minted+vested token supply less the amount locked in initial pledge, vesting rewards etc,

> and `NetworkBaseline` is the baseline function that is an exponential, doubling every year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `NetworkBaseline` is the baseline function that is exponential, doubling every year.
```

The presence of the network baseline in the denominator is intended to reduce initial pledge requirements when
the network's QAP growth is slower than the baseline function,
thus increasing the potential returns to onboarding more QAP.
This reduction in pledge requirements is a desirable property.

However, because the network baseline function is an exponential, it eventually dominates the calculation.

> As the denominator, it drives consensus pledge requirements and thus total collateral locked on the network to zero,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the denominator, it drives consensus pledge requirements and thus total collateral locked on the network approaches to zero,
```
is this right?

unless network QAP follows a similar or faster exponential.

> Zero pledge collateral securing the network is clearly not an outcome that was intended nor a property that is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without any pledge collateral securing the network is clearly not an outcome that was intended nor a property that is 
```

> compatible with a secure network or stable token supply.
> 
> Pledge requirements and total network collateral tending towards zero 
> (or the minimal level that would remain as sector storage pledge) would likely:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compatible with a secure network or stable token supply, as it would likely:
```

Felt a little repetitive

1. severely undermine network consensus security, which depends in large part on the economic stake of participants;
2. significantly expand the token circulating supply, impacting the exchange rate,
   storage provider operational returns, and token-holder behaviour.

In summary, the sector initial pledge construction has a desirable property of exponentially decreasing
as network QAP lags behind the baseline function,

> but an undesirable property of tending network collateral to zero as the baseline function grows.

Reviewer: I feel like this as been stated clearly multiple times in this section, I don't think we necessary have to repeat it again here.

This proposal aims to maintain the desirable property of exponential pledge decrease but introduces

> a reasonable non-zero floor on network collateral.

Reviewer: is the goal to simply to make the function never approaches to zero, or introducing a minimal threshold? if its the latter, I would suggest to change `non-zero floor` to `minimal threshold`

Author: I don't think threshold is the right word. Either "floor" or "lower bound" are appropriate.

## Specification
Factor the per-sector initial consensus pledge into two parts: a 70% share which divides by the baseline function like today,
and a smaller 30% "simple" share which does not divide by the baseline function.

```
SectorInitialConsensusPledge = PledgeLockTarget * (0.3 * SectorSimpleShare + 0.7 * SectorBaselineShare) 

SectorSimpleShare = SectorQAP / NetworkQAP
SectorBaselineShare = SectorQAP / max(NetworkBaseline, NetworkQAP)
PledgeLockTarget = 0.3 * CirculatingSupply
```

Note that the implemented calculation should be re-arranged to defer division until the final operations,
to avoid loss of precision in rounding.

The practical effect of this is that the sector initial pledge calculation has a floor at

> 30% of the current calculation if the baseline function were ignored.

Author: I reworded.

When/if the baseline function exceeds network QAP, the per-sector initial pledge value will still decrease exponentially,
but to this floor rather than toward zero.

## Design Rationale

The baseline function primarily exists to mediate the minting of rewards.
It sets a target for network power, and mints more block rewards as the target is approached.
If the baseline function exceeds the raw byte power, those rewards are deferred into the future to incentivize future growth.

> The minting function splits the total block reward allocation 30/70 into simple and “baseline” minting,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minting function splits the total block reward allocation 30/70 into "simple" and “baseline” minting,
```

following the format used in the proposal

> where baseline minting is that part that depends on network growth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where baseline minting is the part that depends on network growth.
```

This 30/70 split seems to have been forgotten in the pledge calculation.

> A 30% floor provide a reasonable minimum level of minting despite an exponential halving due to baseline function growth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A 30% floor provides a reasonable minimum level of minting despite an exponential halving due to baseline function growth.
```

as technological progress and economic dynamics change.
Such constant economic adjustments are detrimental to both SP and token holders' ability to forecast their businesses.

## Backwards Compatibility

This proposal changes the calculation of the sector initial pledge,
which as implemented in the built-in actors forms part of the consensus rules.
It thus requires a network upgrade to take effect.

This proposal does not change any exported APIs or state schemas.

Parties that compute initial pledge requirements outside of the blockchain evaluation would need to update their calculations.
The results of those calculations will only differ from current state when the baseline function exceeds network QAP.

## Test Cases

To be provided with implementation.

## Security Considerations

One of the primary motivations for this proposal is to maintain that part of consensus security that is supported by pledge amounts.
Without this or a similar proposal, the consensus security provided by total network collateral will be eroded to near-zero 
unless the network’s QAP growth maintains an exponential increase.

> Projections based on historical onboarding rate and SP behaviour suggest the network locked amount would fall to near zero

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projections based on historical onboarding rate and SP behaviour suggest the network token locked amount would fall to near zero
```

over 4 to 5 years (or longer if onboarding rate continually increases).
The practical security value of locked tokens would deteriorate faster if an expanding supply also caused exchange rate deterioration.

This proposal introduces a floor to per-sector initial pledge requirements.

> This in turn provides support for the network’s total locked token amount, and the ratio of locked to circulating supply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This in turn provides support for the network’s total locked token amount, and keep a reasonable ratio of locked locked to circulating supply.
```

Author: It can provide support, it can't necessarily "keep" a reasonable ratio (that depends on other things too).

Reviewer: updated suggestion

This support is still far below current levels of locking, but high enough to provide more meaningful security.
Projections for this proposal indicate locked amounts falling toward one third of current values over 
the same 4 to 5 year period under moderate assumptions, and maintaining current values under optimistic growth assumptions.
The practical security value of this locking would be supported by a stable or improving exchange rate.

![macro.png](../resources/fip-xxx-pledge-baseline/macro.png)

_Onboarding scenarios for the above Figure are based on historical onboarding trends over a 60-day lookback period.

> The pessimistic and status_quo onboarding rates  are 3.5 PiB/day and 5 PiB/day respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pessimistic and status_quo onboarding rates are 3.5 PiB/day and 5 PiB/day respectively.
```

> The optimistic onboarding rate is initially 5.8 PiBs/day, ramping up to 17 PiB/Day over the 5 year simulation duration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The optimistic onboarding rate is initially 5.8 PiB/day, ramping up to 17 PiB/Day over the 5-year simulation duration. 
```

Author: I don't agree with these stylistic suggestions.

Reviewer: how come?  im not sure why we uses PiB**s**/**d**ay for 5.8 but PiB(w/o _s_)/**D**ay for 17 😄

Author: Sorry, I think I misunderstood the diff. Dropping the s and the capital.

increasing hardware commitments, improving security. 
There are, however, many practical barriers to sustaining exponential growth, including in the Filecoin protocol design itself.
Sustained exponential growth requires continual technological improvements to secure exponentially more storage
with a constrained L1 consensus throughput.

The loss of some security is a tradeoff against decreasing pledge requirements to improve incentives for onboarding and growth.
The current protocol trades all pledge security for incentives;
this proposal preserves approximately one third of the security value under conservative growth assumptions.

## Incentive Considerations

The sector initial consensus pledge formula is designed to reduce pledge requirements 
when network QAP lags behind the exponentially growing baseline function.
This proposal preserves that general property, but moderates it so that consensus pledge requirements do not fall toward zero,
but a higher floor value.

With this proposal, initial pledge requirements still fall exponentially: quickly to start,
and then more slowly in absolute terms over time.

> At current onboarding rates, the difference between locked amounts with or without this proposal is negligible over the first year,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At current onboarding rates, the difference between locked token amounts with or without this proposal is negligible over the first year,
```

which determines the share of power the new sector represents.
A high network growth rate reduces per-sector initial pledge requirements (and also share of rewards) 
while also supporting the total locked amount. 
A low network growth rate requires each sector to take more of the pledge total (and also greater share of rewards).

![micro.png](../resources/fip-xxx-pledge-baseline/micro.png)

The impact on sector ROI incentives of this proposal depends on SPs’ collective response to an incremental reduction in pledge requirements.
- If SPs respond strongly and network growth accelerates to keep pace with the baseline, 
  this proposal will have little to no impact on pledge or ROI (orange lines). 
  The difference between the status quo and proposed pledge calculation will be small.
  This proposal only matters if network growth lags, and only makes a difference in that case, too.
- If SPs do not respond strongly enough and network growth continues to lag, this proposal will have a larger impact
  by limiting the decrease in pledge (blue and green lines).

This is ultimately a trade-off between individual incentives, and network security and economic health.

### Activation timing

> This proposal may be activated after the baseline function has already crossed above network QAP.

Reviewer: Do you suggest the proposal to be activated before the baseline function crosses above the network QAP? If so, lets add that?

Author: That's not within the scope of a FIP text to determine (and very unlikely anyway).

Reviewer: I believe this proposal could be activated _before_ the baseline function is cross the network QAP as well, and I think it is an option to be mentioned in this section.

Author: Oh I see, it _can_ be before or after, yes. Updating.

So long as the duration between these events is relatively short (a few months), 
the difference between the pledge requirements before or after the change will be small,
and the impact on consensus security negligible.

A delayed activation would lead to pledge requirements falling slightly faster than if the change were activated sooner.
The expectation of a subsequent increase in pledge requirements would create some incentive to onboard QAP sooner rather than later,
which would in turn push network QAP up closer to the baseline function and thus counteract the divergence.
In the short term, the incentives created by an expected small increase in pledge requirements are self-limiting.

## Product Considerations

A reduction in pledge requirements will improve FIL ROIs and may thus encourage more supply of storage for clients, at lower prices.
This proposal limits that reduction so that network pledge cannot fall to zero,

> in order to preserve network economic security and more stable token exchange rates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in order to preserve network consensus and economic security and more stable token exchange rates.
```

Author: This is debatable. It's only affecting the economic part of any security.
